hey guys and gals homestead prepper and
a lot of y'all recognize what this is
and I picked this up at a flea market
for $20 and it needs a little rebuilding
and it's aluminum and the problem I have
is this pipe is used in here y'all can
see that or not it's really rusted in
there and and yeah I can you know bear
some fortune on it but this is aluminum
the break so I'm gonna try and get that
out and also this is aluminum aluminum
and I guess it's corroded I need to get
that off to rebuild this pump so that's
what we're going to be doing
okay I'm going to be using a propane
torch here and I don't want to use
oxy-acetylene because this melts at
twelve hundred twenty degrees this
aluminum of course I'm not worried about
the steel it melts at twenty five to
twenty seven hundred degrees this only
gets to 900 degrees so what I'm going to
do is I'm going to heat this up and then
we're going to put some type of
penetrating oil on it so let's uh let's
get it going here I'm going to start on
camera finally
and up a little bit
we see it
early life flame
gonna heat this thing up a little bit
you got the idea
okay I just heard a cracking noise so
put some of that on there and the theory
is is when it cools off that penetrating
oil will get up in there around it so
try that
okay if y'all can see that I'm just
gonna keep that
feel up its gonna hold the heat more
than the aluminum aluminum dissipates
even quicker so go around there and heat
that up for a few minutes put some of
this stuff on it right here okay I'm
gonna let that soak with the penetrating
oil and this right here I need to break
this little leather off right here and
see if I could heat that up or whatever
and try and get that off
okay I had to break this gasket or this
leather cup out of this thing right here
and I tried to pocketknife screwdriver
and ultimately it was so hard and rotten
I had the hacksaw around the sides of it
and then break it out with screwdriver
and it just comes out just needs to be
cleaned up okay I've tried Heat I've
tried welding a piece of metal and
welding a socket on here and tape
putting an impact gun to it and it just
doesn't want to come off and I'm real
leery about breaking this in aluminum so
the next option is going to be to saw it
off
both hands for that
okay and that solves all made pretty
quick work of this and I've gotten that
off and I know some of y'all are
wondering well how you gonna get that
out well I'm gonna take the Saul's off
and I'm gonna cut that and cut a coke
pieces and then we'll just break it out
if you look you can see where I ever so
gingerly cut four slots into it and I've
started to beat that out with my hammer
and I'll see if I can hold this and show
this to you all at the same time
okay well there you go guys I just beat
on one of those little cutout so now I
didn't go all the way through Fred's and
this thing once you get one out and the
rest of them will come out and there we
go and
the threads might have a couple little
gashes on them but I didn't break the
piece so should have done that to begin
with all those other fancy methods and
just good old brute force and a saw can
work a lot of the time yeah I just
wanted to show you a close-up of this
thing it was just just rusted inside
that aluminum and I guess maybe if I'd
applied some more heat maybe it would
have come out of there but might have
been the at the expense of milking this
housing right here so I think from now
on that's what I'm going to do run
across this problem I'm just gonna just
cut it out and save a lot of hassle and
a lot of time and from what you saw
there guys from me cutting it out and
filming it and knocking this out of here
was only maybe a minute and a half
something like that so okay homestead
pop rock